Improve gateway topology documentation to be user-facing (#9090)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/index.md

test: no
---

> ## Forwarding external client attributes (IP address, certification info) to workloads

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Forwarding external client attributes (IP address, certificate info) to workloads
```

{{< boilerplate experimental >}}

> Many applications require knowing the client IP address (e.g for security such as WAF, auditing, observability with

Reviewer 2: I'd move the parenthetical to the end of the sentence to read a bit easier.

> tracing and logging, caching) from an originating request to behave properly. While Istio provides an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tracing and logging, caching) of the originating request to behave properly. While Istio provides an
```

> [ingress gateway](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/ingress-control/), given the varieties of architectures (e.g.

Reviewer 2: Long parenthetical is distracting, consider refactoring this sentence a bit.

ingress gateway behind a Cloud Load Balancer, many intermediate proxies between a gateway and Istio or direct gateway

> exposure to the internet) reasonable defaults are not able to be shipped that support the proper forwarding of a client

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
exposure to the internet) reasonable defaults are not able to be shipped that support the proper forwarding of client
```

> attributes, such as the client IP address, to the appropriate workloads. Similar to a client IP address, other client

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
attributes, such as the client IP address, to the destination workloads. Similar to the client IP address, other client
```

> attributes, such as the client IP address, to the appropriate workloads. Similar to a client IP address, other client

Reviewer 2: Rather than have these ", such as x," sections, I'd maybe just say up front that we're talking about client IP and client cert information, and simplify the language later.

> attributes, such as client certificate information, should be preserved and forwared to the appropriate workloads. As

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attributes, such as client certificate information, should be preserved and forwarded to the appropriate workloads. As
```

> attributes, such as client certificate information, should be preserved and forwarded to the appropriate workloads. As

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
attributes, such as client certificate information, should be preserved and forwarded to the destination workloads. As
```

> multicluster becomes more common place this important becomes ever more vital

Reviewer: ```suggestion
multicluster deployment models become more common, this becomes ever more vital.
```

> multicluster deployment models become more common, this becomes ever more vital.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
multicluster deployment models become more common this becomes ever more vital.
```

> To do this, all proxies forward each request using `X-Forwarded-For` (XFF) and `X-Forwarded-Client-Cert` (XFCC).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this, all proxies forward this information using `X-Forwarded-For` (XFF) and `X-Forwarded-Client-Cert` (XFCC) headers.
```

> To do this, all proxies forward this information using `X-Forwarded-For` (XFF) and `X-Forwarded-Client-Cert` (XFCC) headers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To forward these client attributes the proxies use the `X-Forwarded-For` (XFF) and `X-Forwarded-Client-Cert` (XFCC) headers.
```

> However, to make sure the proper information makes it to the workload, the user must set configure Istio with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, to make sure the proper information makes it to the workload, the user must configure Istio with
```

> However, to make sure the proper information makes it to the workload, the user must configure Istio with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make sure the proper information makes it to the workload, however, the user must configure Istio with
```

test: no
---

## Forwarding external client attributes (IP address, certificate info) to destination workloads

{{< boilerplate experimental >}}

Many applications require knowing the client IP address and certificate information of the originating request to behave
properly. Notable cases include logging, tracing audit tools that require the client IP be populated; security tools

> such as Web Application Firewalls (WAF) may need this information to apply rulesets properly. The functionality of

Reviewer 3: The linter is picking on the spelling of ruleset.  I see we use it as two words, rule set, in other docs.

Author: Fixed

The [PROXY protocol](https://www.haproxy.org/download/1.8/doc/proxy-protocol.txt) allows for exchanging and preservation of client attributes across multiple proxies without relying on Layer 7 protocols.

> If your external load balancer is configured to use the PROXY protocol, the Istio gateway must also be configured to accept PROXY protocol. Enabling this requires adding [Envoy Proxy Protocol filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/listeners/listener_filters/proxy_protocol) using an `EnvoyFilter` applied on the gateway workload. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your external load balancer is configured to use the PROXY protocol, the Istio gateway must also be configured to accept the PROXY protocol. Enabling this requires adding the [Envoy Proxy Protocol filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/listeners/listener_filters/proxy_protocol) using an `EnvoyFilter` applied on the gateway workload. For example:
```
